# The Slot Machine
**Video Demo:**  https://youtu.be/P-OMDXtgbLg
## Description
This project involves code that simulates an interactive slot machine.
## Contents
+ project.py - main file, contains imported libraries, project functions.
+ test_project.py - test file, contains unittests for multiple functions (pytest).
+ requirements.txt - additional file, contains pip-installable libraries.
+ README.md - description file, contains project URL, structure, description.
## Imported Libraries
**RANDOM:** This module implements pseudo-random number generators for various distributions. [(Documentation)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html)

**COLLECTIONS:** This module implements specialized container datatypes providing alternatives to Python’s general purpose built-in containers. [(Documentation)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html)

**TABULATE:** Pretty-print tabular data in Python, a library and a command-line utility. [(Documentation)](https://pypi.org/project/tabulate/)

**NUMPY:** NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing in Python. [(Documentation)](https://numpy.org/doc/1.24/user/basics.html)

**SYS:** This module provides access to some variables used or maintained by the interpreter and to functions that interact strongly with the interpreter. [(Documentation)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html)
## Implementation
The project consists of 7 functions, including the main() function.
### Main():

The **main()** function welcomes the user, gets a deposit, checks whether they want to play or not, and continues with the game. Error handling and response validation are also handled in this function. The user's balance (initial deposit) is updated once the **game()** function is called. The user is either left with no money, wins the Jackpot, or continues the game.

### Game(balance):

The **game(balance)** function receives 1 argument - user's balance. Calls the **get_line()** and **get_bet()** functions, checks whether the user's bet is more than their balance, and continues if it is not. Generates the slot reels according to the number of lines the user specified (and displays using the imported **tabulate** function), and calculates on which line did the user win. The logic is simple, with just one line being the winning line. If no symbols repeat per line, the winning amounts to $0. If there is more than one symbol repeating per line, the set symbol is chosen as winning (if there are multiple such symbols, one type is chosen randomly). If the user gets 3 lucky sevens on one line, he wins the Jackpot and the game ends. The function returns the total winnings.

### Get_deposit():

The **get_deposit()** function gets the deposit as input, handles any errors, and checks whether the deposit is greater than 0.

### Get_line():

The **get_line()** function gets the lines as input, handles any errors, and checks whether the lines are between the 1 and 3 available lines to bet on (that's how many lines (rows) will be generated for the slot).

### Get_bet():

The **get_bet()** function gets the bet as input, handles any errors, and checks whether the deposit is between minimum and maximum bets. Those can be changed.

### Generate_slot_reels(line):

The **generate_slot_reels(line)** function receives 1 argument - number of lines. From the symbol names, it randomly chooses certain amount of symbols per line, and creates an array (list of lists).

### Combinations(sequence, bet):

The **combinations(sequence, bet)** function receives 2 arguments - the array generated by the **generate_slot_reels(line)** function and the user's bet. It calculates the most common symbol(s) in the array (as well as its name(s)), and calculates a score according to the frequency of the symbol(s).

### **Author: Ruben Badalyan (Yerevan, Armenia)**